add rgw ops sidecar for op logs (#14646)
rook/rook: design/ceph/object/store.md

vhost-style addressing should be configured on the host cluster, and `hosting.dnsNames` is
irrelevant. The default `advertiseEndpoint` for external CephObjectStores is the first entry in the
`spec.gateway.externalRgwEndpoints` list, which users should be able to override if desired.

### RGW Operations Logging

By default, all RGW logs are included in the main RGW container logs. For enhanced observability of the operations, the [RGW operations log](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/radosgw/config-ref/#confval-rgw_enable_ops_log) can be separated from the main RGW container logs by enabling a sidecar. To enable, set `gateway.opsLog.enabled: true`.

```yaml
spec:
  metadataPool:
    replicated:
      size: 1
  dataPool:
    replicated:
      size: 1
  preservePoolsOnDelete: false
  gateway:
    port: 80
    instances: 1

>     opsLog:
>       enabled: true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    opsLogSidecar:
      resources:
        requests: {}
        limits: {}
```

vhost-style addressing should be configured on the host cluster, and `hosting.dnsNames` is
irrelevant. The default `advertiseEndpoint` for external CephObjectStores is the first entry in the
`spec.gateway.externalRgwEndpoints` list, which users should be able to override if desired.

### RGW Operations Logging

> If you want to have the ops log available for enhanced observality of the operations, you'd have to set `rgwOpsLogEnabled` this will set the [configuration for enabling ops logs to Ceph](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/radosgw/config-ref/#confval-rgw_enable_ops_log).

Reviewer 2: How about something like this to give some more background?
```suggestion
By default, all RGW logs are included in the main RGW container logs. For enhanced observability of the operations, the RGW operations log can be separated from the main RGW container logs by enabling a sidecar. To enable, set `logging.opsLogEnabled: true`.
```

```yaml
spec:
  metadataPool:
    replicated:
      size: 1
  dataPool:
    replicated:
      size: 1
  preservePoolsOnDelete: false
  gateway:
    port: 80
    # securePort: 443
    instances: 1

>   rgwOpsLogEnabled: true

Reviewer 2: There are other logging settings that could potentially be exposed. How about if we have a `logging` element, with the settings under it like so:
```suggestion
  gateway:
    logging:
      opsLogEnabled: true
```
Since it's part of the rgw pod, it should also be under the `gateway` settings.

An alternative to consider if there were other ops log settings:
```yaml
  gateway:
    logging:
      opsLog:
         enabled: true
```

```

> When enabled we make it accessible to you using a sidecar `rgw-ops-log` you can then access the logs using:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When enabled, the logs can be accessed in the sidecar container:
```

```sh

> # k logs rook-ceph-rgw-my-store-a-59d48474d9-jv7ps -c rgw-ops-log -nrook-ceph

Reviewer 2: To keep the naming simple, how about just `ops-log` for the container? Everything in the pod belongs to rgw already, so I'd suggest we don't need that prefix.
```suggestion
# k logs rook-ceph-rgw-my-store-a-59d48474d9-jv7ps -c ops-log -nrook-ceph
```

```

> ## Enabling RGW Operations Log for Observability

Reviewer 2: What is the difference in this section? It looks like a duplicate of the above section.

To capture and analyze detailed RADOS Gateway (RGW) operations such as reads, writes, and metadata accesses, you need to enable the `rgwOpsLogEnabled` setting in Ceph. This feature is useful for monitoring, auditing, debugging, and improving observability.
For more details on configuring and managing RGW operations logs, please refer to the official Ceph documentation on [rgw_enable_ops_log](https://docs.ceph.com/en/latest/radosgw/config-ref/#confval-rgw_enable_ops_log).

### Configuration Steps

To enable RGW operations logging, add the `rgwOpsLogEnabled` setting to your Object's specification. Below is an example configuration in YAML for a Rook-Ceph deployment:

```yaml
spec:
  metadataPool:
    replicated:
      size: 1
  dataPool:
    replicated:
      size: 1
  preservePoolsOnDelete: false
  gateway:
    port: 80
    # securePort: 443
    instances: 1
  rgwOpsLogEnabled: true

>   rgwopslog:

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest no need for the memory limits in this doc example, it's nice to keep the docs simple for readability. But these memory/cpu resources could be included in the example object.yaml. Also, for naming consistency with the main rgw resources, how about under `gateway.opsLogResources`.
```suggestion
  gateway:
    opsLogResources:
```

>   rgwopslog:

Reviewer: `gateway` already implies RGW. Is there a benfit to having the `rgw` prefix?

I.e., what about just `opsLog`?

>   rgwopslog:

Reviewer: There is no need to have `rgwOpsLogEnabled` and `rgwOpsLog` both. Generally, Kubernetes manifests assume that presence of a feature's config implies enabled, and similarly that missing means disabled. This is easily achieved by making the config a pointer to a struct that is nullable.

`config` options. Users should refrain from setting `client.rook-ceph-rgw-*` configs in the
CephCluster when this feature is used. Documentation should note this for users. Rook can revisit
this decision in the future to add cross-CRD validation if it becomes a strong user desire/need.

> ### RGW Operations Logging

Reviewer 2: Instead of this design doc, please add this new documentation to ceph-object-store-crd.md.
